First, you'll revisit the general
structure of neural networks and
how they make predictions.
And I'll show you the structure you'll
be using to perform sentiment analysis.
Neural networks are computational
structures that in a very simplistic
way attempt to mimic the way
the human brain recognizes patterns.
They're used in many applications
of artificial intelligence and
have proven very effective on a variety
of tasks, including those in NLP.
Have a look at this example of a simple
neural network with n input parameters,
two hidden layers, and three output units.
As input this neural network receives
a data representation x with n features.
Then performs computations
in its hidden layers.
And finally it delivers an output
which in this case has size 3.
Let's take a look at how
it works mathematically.
I'll denote every activation
layer as a superscript i,
where i is the layers number.
First, define a superscript
0 to be the input vector X.
To get the values for each layer's
activations a, you have to compute
the value for z superscript i, which
depends on both the weights matrix for
that layer and
the activations a from the previous layer.
Finally, you get the values for
each layer by applying an activation
function g to the value of z.
As you can see, this computation moves
forward from the left of the neural
network towards the right, and
that's why this process is
called forward propagation.
For this module's assignment,
you're going to implement a neural
network that looks like this.
As input, it will receive a simple
vector representation of your tweets.
It will have an embedding layer that
will transform your representation into
an optimal one for this task.
And finally, it will have a hidden layer
with a ReLU activation function and
an output layer with a softmax function
that will give you the probabilities for
whether a tweet has a positive or
negative sentiment.
This neural network will allow you to
predict sentiments for complex tweets,
such as a tweet like this one that
says this movie was almost good,
that you wouldn't have been able to
classify correctly using simpler methods
such as naive Bayes because they
missed important information.
The initial representation X that you
will use for this neural network will be
a vector of integers similar to your
previous work with sentiment analysis.
You'll first need to list all of your
words from your vocabulary, and next, for
this application, you'll assign
an integer index to each of them.
Then for each word in your tweet,
add the index from your vocabulary to
construct a vector like this one for
every tweet.
After you have all the vector
representations of your tweets,
you will need to identify
the maximum vector size and
fill every vector with
zeros to match that size.
This process is called padding and
assures that all of your vectors have
the same size, even if your tweets don't.
Let's do a quick recap.
At this point you're familiar with the
general structure of the neural network
that you'll be using to
classify sentiments for
a set of complex nuanced tweets.
You also reviewed the integer
representation that's going to be used in
this module.
In this video,
you have seen an overview of how to use
sentiment analysis using neural networks.
You have seen how to use padding and
how to represent a tweet.
In the next video, we will dive
deeper into sentiments analysis.